## Step One: Document and Audit
#### Things To Document and Track
- `Naming conventions of OUs, computers, users, groups`
- `DNS, network, and DHCP configurations`
- `An intimate understanding of all GPOs and the objects that they are applied to`
- `Assignment of FSMO roles`
- `Full and current application inventory`
- `A list of all enterprise hosts and their location`
- `Any trust relationships we have with other domains or outside entities`
- `Users who have elevated permissions`

## People, Processes, and Technology
### People
The measures below are a great way to start securing the Human element of an AD environment.
- The organization should have a strong password policy, with a password filter that disallows the use of common words (i.e., welcome, password, names of months/days/seasons, and the company name). If possible, an enterprise password manager should be used to assist users with choosing and using complex passwords.
- Rotate passwords periodically for **all** service accounts.
- Disallow local administrator access on user workstations unless a specific business need exists.
- Disable the default `RID-500 local admin` account and create a new admin account for administration subject to LAPS password rotation.
- Implement split tiers of administration for administrative users. Too often, during an assessment, you will gain access to Domain Administrator credentials on a computer that an administrator uses for all work activities.
- Clean up privileged groups. `Does the organization need 50+ Domain/Enterprise Admins?` Restrict group membership in highly privileged groups to only those users who require this access to perform their day-to-day system administrator duties.
- Where appropriate, place accounts in the `Protected Users` group.
- Disable Kerberos delegation for administrative accounts (the Protected Users group may not do this)
### Protected Users Group
The [Protected Users group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/security/credentials-protection-and-management/protected-users-security-group) first appeared with Window Server 2012 R2. This group can be used to restrict what members of this privileged group can do in a domain. Adding users to Protected Users prevents user credentials from being abused if left in memory on a host.

#### Viewing the Protected Users Group with Get-ADGroup
```powershell
PS C:\Users\htb-student> Get-ADGroup -Identity "Protected Users" -Properties Name,Description,Members


Description       : Members of this group are afforded additional protections against authentication security threats.
                    See http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=298939 for more information.
DistinguishedName : CN=Protected Users,CN=Users,DC=INLANEFREIGHT,DC=LOCAL
GroupCategory     : Security
GroupScope        : Global
Members           : {CN=sqlprod,OU=Service Accounts,OU=IT,OU=Employees,DC=INLANEFREIGHT,DC=LOCAL, CN=sqldev,OU=Service
                    Accounts,OU=IT,OU=Employees,DC=INLANEFREIGHT,DC=LOCAL}
Name              : Protected Users
ObjectClass       : group
ObjectGUID        : e4e19353-d08f-4790-95bc-c544a38cd534
SamAccountName    : Protected Users
SID               : S-1-5-21-2974783224-3764228556-2640795941-525
```

The group provides the following Domain Controller and device protections:
- Group members can not be delegated with constrained or unconstrained delegation.
- CredSSP will not cache plaintext credentials in memory even if Allow delegating default credentials is set within Group Policy.
- Windows Digest will not cache the user's plaintext password, even if Windows Digest is enabled.
- Members cannot authenticate using NTLM authentication or use DES or RC4 keys.
- After acquiring a TGT, the user's long-term keys or plaintext credentials are not cached.
- Members cannot renew a TGT longer than the original 4-hour TTL.
### Processes
The items below can help to define processes, policies, and procedures.
- Proper policies and procedures for AD asset management.
    - AD host audit, the use of asset tags, and periodic asset inventories can help ensure hosts are not lost.
- Access control policies (user account provisioning/de-provisioning), multi-factor authentication mechanisms.
- Processes for provisioning and decommissioning hosts (i.e., baseline security hardening guideline, gold images)
- AD cleanup policies
    - `Are accounts for former employees removed or just disabled?`
    - `What is the process for removing stale records from AD?`
    - Processes for decommissioning legacy operating systems/services (i.e., proper uninstallation of Exchange when migrating to 0365).
    - Schedule for User, groups, and hosts audit.

### Technology
Periodically review AD for legacy misconfigurations and new and emerging threats. As changes are made to AD, ensure that common misconfigurations are not introduced. Pay attention to any vulnerabilities introduced by AD and tools or applications utilized in the environment.
- Run tools such as BloodHound, PingCastle, and Grouper periodically to identify AD misconfigurations.
- Ensure that administrators are not storing passwords in the AD account description field.
- Review SYSVOL for scripts containing passwords and other sensitive data.
- Avoid the use of "normal" service accounts, utilizing Group Managed (gMSA) and Managed Service Accounts (MSA) where ever possible to mitigate the risk of Kerberoasting.
- Disable Unconstrained Delegation wherever possible.
- Prevent direct access to Domain Controllers through the use of hardened jump hosts.
- Consider setting the `ms-DS-MachineAccountQuota` attribute to `0`, which disallows users from adding machine accounts and can prevent several attacks such as the noPac attack and Resource-Based Constrained Delegation (RBCD)
- Disable the print spooler service wherever possible to prevent several attacks
- Disable NTLM authentication for Domain Controllers if possible
- Use Extended Protection for Authentication along with enabling Require SSL only to allow HTTPS connections for the Certificate Authority Web Enrollment and Certificate Enrollment Web Service services
- Enable SMB signing and LDAP signing
- Take steps to prevent enumeration with tools like BloodHound
- Ideally, perform quarterly penetration tests/AD security assessments, but if budget constraints exist, these should be performed annually at the very least.
- Test backups for validity and review/practice disaster recovery plans.
- Enable the restriction of anonymous access and prevent null session enumeration by setting the `RestrictNullSessAccess` registry key to `1` to restrict null session access to unauthenticated users.

## Protections By Section
As a different look at this, we have broken out the significant actions by section and correlated controls based on the TTP and a MITRE tag. Each tag corresponds with a section of the [Enterprise ATT&CK Matrix](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/enterprise/) found here. Any tag marked as `TA` corresponds to an overarching tactic, while a tag marked as `T###` is a technique found in the matrix under tactics.